A. Mellon
Talking Points

1. "A data spill can't be cleaned up." - I think this is one of the most important talking points we can address with our patrons and fellow-librarians. It's a good idea to think about everything we have out there and how none of it can be cleaned up once it's spilled. Disuss recent data breaches and what the consequences of those leaks can be for the affected customers (I'm think Target, Yahoo, Equifax, etc). 
2. Data and tech companies are the most powerful companies on the planet and the largest lobbyists in the country. Data and tech companies make their customers the product. What does this mean for customers? You're getting a great product, but are you comfortable with how your information is being bought and sold? Discuss how these companies are businesses and while protecting your privacy and growing the businesses sometimes aligns, it doesn't always. Can we blindly trust that these companies will value customers privacy and information over making money? Read up on privacy policies. Know what type of information they are collecting before signing up for a service/purchasing a product.
3. Targeted advertising seems really fun at first. Who doesn't love having content catered specifically to them? While targeted advertising can be seemingly harmless (I'm think targeted ads for new sunglasses or a vacation), it can sometimes be harmful. Talk about times that targeted advertising has harmed or excluded certain people groups from things. (Like mortgage companies targeting minorities during the mortgage crisis from 2006-2008 and the long-term affects of that kind of targeting). Talk about what targeted ads can reveal about users who forget to sign out of accounts before someone elses uses the same machine, etc. Learn more about privacy settings and opt out features on platforms like Facebook and Google. 

These are all concepts I could slip in to a privacy training with public libraries. They are concepts that are easy for people to grasp and there are easy, actionable steps users can take almost immediately to further protect themselves under each one. 
